# Color representation of movies' music

clemence.luyet@unil.ch, thibaud.perret@epfl.ch, jimin.wang@epfl.ch, anton.sherstiuk@epfl.ch

The purpose of this research is to observe the possible link between the soundtrack and the colour of the images in a film. Associating sound and colour also means associating two senses: hearing and sight. In this work, we will focus on the phenomenon of synesthesia, which is precisely defined by the combination of two meanings (Cytowic, 2002). This neurological phenomenon offers some people to "see" colours when they hear music. According to some researchers, colours (tastes, or smells...) are specific to each person who experiences the phenomenon of synesthesia, but that only a few people actually experience it. What if everyone was able to put colors on the sounds? What would they look like? Could some kind of cultural pattern be highlighted? For example, if we gave to listen to the music of a love scene, would it be colored red by default; the color of love by excellence? For this work we would like to be inspired by the methodology of Mats B. Küssner in his work "Music and Shape" (Küssner, 2013) where the participants musicians and non-musicians had to draw with a graphic tablet the course of the music while they were listening to it. For our research, we would like to make an experiment where each participant would be confronted with a program that is used with a graphic tablet, iPad... so that he can move his finger on a color palette while listening to the music (since the theories of the concept of synaesthesia believe that colors are moving in relation to music). We would experiment several times with different groups of participants. During the first experiment, the participants visualize the colored images and listen to the corresponding soundtrack. In the second experiment, the participants visualize the black and white images and listen to the corresponding soundtrack. During the third experiment, the participants will visualize an image that does not correspond to the soundtrack. Finally, during the fourth experiment, the participants listen to the soundtrack but without the image. With the collected data, we will analyze if the image influences the colors given to the music in the same way as the music influences it. This research will be in line with the research conducted on the visualization of music and the cultural transmission of certain factors such as the colours given to feelings, for example.

Literature:

Mats B. Küssner; Music and shape, Literary and Linguistic Computing, Volume 28, Issue 3, 1 September 2013, Pages 472–479, https://doi.org/10.1093/llc/fqs071

Madeleine Leclair, « Voir la musique », Terrain [En ligne], 53 | septembre 2009, mis en ligne le 03 septembre 2009, consulté le 13 mars 2019. URL : http://journals.openedition.org/terrain/13750 ; DOI : 10.4000/terrain.13750

Walker R. The effects of culture, environment, age, and musical training on choices of visual metaphors for sound, Perception & Psychophysics , 1987, vol. 42 5(pg. 491-502)

Richard E. Cytowic, Synesthesia : A Union of The Senses, A Bradford Book The MIT Press Cambridge, Massachusetts London, England, 2002, p. 67-70
